<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>XSpec</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<div>
			<p>This add-on installs a recent snapshot of the <span style="color:red">development
					version</span> of XSpec. See <a
					href="https://github.com/xspec/xspec/wiki/Running-with-Oxygen">Wiki</a> for
				details.</p>
			<p>This add-on does <span style="color:red">not</span> work side by side with <b>XSpec
					Framework</b> add-on (a companion add-on for <b>XSpec Helper view</b>
				add-on).</p>
		</div>
		<div>
			<h2 style="margin-top: 8mm">Changelog (not inclusive)</h2>
			<div>
				<h3>v4.0.1</h3>
				<ul>
					<li>XSpec supports testing <a href="https://xproc.org">XProc 3</a> steps. To learn more, see <a
							href="https://github.com/xspec/xspec/wiki/Getting-Started-with-XSpec-for-Testing-XProc"
							>Getting Started with XSpec for Testing XProc</a>. Corresponding Oxygen transformation scenarios are:
						<ul>
							<li>"Run XSpec Test", where you point "xspec.xmlcalabash.classpath" to your own XML Calabash 3 installation</li>
							<li>"XSpec for XProc using XProc", which uses XML Calabash 3 built into Oxygen</li>
						</ul>
					</li>
					<li>SchXslt2 v1.10.3 replaces SchXslt, for testing Schematron schemas having an XSLT-based queryBinding. Compatibility notes:
						<ul>
							<li>To specify a Schematron phase in your test, use a global x:param element. With SchXslt2,
								the parameter name is "Q{http://dmaus.name/ns/2023/schxslt namespace}phase", not "phase".</li>
							<li>SchXslt usage in XSpec is <a
									href="https://github.com/xspec/xspec/wiki/Using-Another-Implementation-of-Schematron#using-schxslt-with-xspec-v232-and-earlier-or-v40-onward"
									>deprecated but still works</a>.</li>
						</ul>
					</li>
					<li>The XProc 3 pipelines for running XSpec tests can produce JUnit reports on the new
						"junit" output port. To produce JUnit reports, set the "junit-enabled" option to "true".</li>
					<li>The XProc 3 pipelines for running XSpec tests have a new "inline-css" option with default
						value "true", making the HTML report of test results a self-contained file. For the
						XSpec v3 behavior instead, set "inline-css" to the string "false". Note: The XProc-based
						Oxygen transformation scenarios in this framework use "false".
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
			<div>
				<h3>v3.4.3</h3>
				<ul>
					<li>Official release of v3.4. For features, see v3.4.x listings below.</li>
					<li>Tested with XML Calabash 3.0.42.</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
			<div>
				<h3>v3.4.2</h3>
				<ul>
					<li>Release Candidate of the stable release</li>
					<li>Ant and the "Run XSpec Test" transformation scenario support running tests for Schematron schemas using XQS as the Schematron implementation. You must install BaseX and use the xspec.basex.classpath property (Parameters tab in Edit Ant Scenario dialog) to indicate the location of BaseX.jar.</li>
					<li>Tested with XML Calabash 3.0.40.</li>
					<li>Tested with BaseX 12.2.</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
			<div>
				<h3>v3.4.1</h3>
				<ul>
					<li>Requires Java 17 or later. XSpec is tested with Java 17 and 21.</li>
					<li>xspec.bat and xspec.sh scripts support running tests for Schematron schemas using XQS as the Schematron implementation. Before running the script, you must install BaseX and set an environment variable named BASEX_JAR to the location of BaseX.jar. </li>
					<li>The built-in XQuery-based Schematron implementation, XQS, is now v1.1.5.</li>
					<li>The XProc-based Oxygen transformation scenarios for running XSpec tests for XSLT and XQuery now use XProc 3 instead of XProc 1.</li>
					<li>Tested with Oxygen 28.0. This add-on requires Oxygen 28.0 or later, due to the XProc 3 scenarios.</li>
					<li>After x:context or x:call, the x:variable and x:like elements can appear in any order and can be mixed.</li>
					<li>Tested with BaseX 12.1.</li>
					<li>Tested with Saxon 12.9 and 11.7. XSpec no longer supports Saxon 10.</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
			<div>
				<h3>v3.3.2</h3>
				<ul>
					<li>Official release of v3.3. For features, see v3.3.1 listing below.</li>
					<li>Tested with Saxon 12.9, 11.7, and 10.9.</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
			<div>
				<h3>v3.3.1</h3>
				<ul>
					<li>Release Candidate of the stable release</li>
					<li>You can execute an XSpec test for XSLT or XQuery using an XProc 3 pipeline (<a href="https://github.com/xspec/xspec/pull/2127"
							>#2127</a>)</li>
					<li>You can execute an XSpec test for a Schematron schema that has an XQuery-based queryBinding, using XQS as the Schematron implementation (<a href="https://github.com/xspec/xspec/pull/2157"
							>#2157</a>)</li>
					<li>In the x:expect element, the new, optional 'result-type' attribute describes the sequence type you expect for the actual result. XSpec checks the type before evaluating @test, so an unexpected type leads to an ordinary failure instead of a type error. (<a href="https://github.com/xspec/xspec/pull/2122"
							>#2122</a>)</li>
					<li>Tested with BaseX 12.0</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
			<div>
				<h3>v3.2.2</h3>
				<ul>
					<li>Official release of v3.2</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
			<div>
				<h3>v3.2.1</h3>
				<ul>
					<li>Release Candidate of the stable release</li>
					<li>Code coverage report includes Contents section with coverage statistics
						(<a href="https://github.com/xspec/xspec/pull/2078">#2078</a>).</li>
					<li>Tested with BaseX 11.7.</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
